# LLiMeade

The LLiMeade project is intended to provide an enterprise AI platform designed to seamlessly integrate into existing systems, enabling the easy addition of Generative AI features to any web application. With a focus on versatility and efficiency, LLiMeade offers a suite of tools and APIs to create complex, configurable agents that can access internal or external data and APIs.

# Features

- **Assistants API:** Inspired by the OpenGPTs project, this API allows the creation of complex, configurable agents that can interact with various data sources and APIs.
- **Advanced RAG System:** A fully configurable data ingestion system that allows direct queries or agent-mediated interactions, including:
  - Intelligent partioning of unstructured and tabular documents by semantic similarity or by document sub-section. Initial experiments have shown this to be a significant improvement over recursive character text splitting methods. 
  - Document reranking and summarization
- **Fully Local** (In progress): Keep data internal and run the entire system on your own infrastructure without relying on 3rd-party LLMs and APIs.

Coming:
  - Self-reflective assistants
  - DBT processing
  - Evaluation and scoring of assistants and data ingestion configurations with side-by-side comparisons

# Technology Stack

- Programming Language: Python
- Relational Database: PostgreSQL
- Vector Database: Qdrant (more will be supported)
- ORM: SQLAlchemy
- Migration Tool: Alembic
- Orchestration: LangChain
- Agentic Assistants: LangGraph
- Document Processing: Semantic-Router, Unstructured
- Frontend: TypeScript/React (coming soon)

# Setup

The application can be setup to run locally for development, within Docker via the provided docker-compose.yaml, or a Kubernetes cluster.

## Quickstart (Docker)

Follow these instructions if you are only running from Docker and do not need to set up the environment for development.

1. Create .env.production file in root using the .env.production.example template.
2. Run `docker-compose up`

## Kubernetes (TODO)

## Dev Setup

_Review "LLiMeade PyServer Prerequisites" below for instructions on installing Python and Poetry._

1. Clone the repo
2. From root directory, create a new virtual env with `python  -m venv .venv`
3. Activate the virtual env with `source .venv/bin/activate`
4. Create .env.local file using the .env.local.example template.
5. Open docker-compose.yaml and comment out the `pyserver` block under `services`
6. Open docker on your machine if it is not already running and run `docker-compose up -d`. This will download and start the images for Qdrant, Postgres, and Unstructured-API
7. Install the dependencies by running `cd pyserver && poetry install --no-root`.
8. When that is fiinished, you will need to run the database migration with `alembic upgrade head` while still in the `pyserver` directory.
9. Run `poetry run python start.py` to start the server.
10. Navigate to `http://localhost:9000/docs` to see the API documentation.
11. Continue with "Testing the APIs" below

## LLiMeade PyServer Prerequisites

Before starting the dev setup, make sure you have Python 3.11 or above installed:

- Download and install python from [https://www.python.org/downloads/](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- (Optional) create an alias for python to point to python3 in your shell configuration file (e.g., .zshrc or .bash_profile), like this (for mac):

```shell
echo 'alias python=python3' >> ~/.zshrc
source ~/.zshrc
```

- Run the `Update Shell Profile.command` and `Install Certificates.command` files, located in the folder where Python was installed.
  Now you are ready to set up PyServer...

The pyserver uses Poetry for dependency and env management. To install Poetry, run:

```shell
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python -
```

After installing Poetry, it might tell you to add something to your shell profile script (eg. `echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.poetry/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc`). Make sure to do this if it tells you to.

> Note: be sure to restart your terminal or run: `source ~/.zshrc` to make sure the changes take effect. Run `poetry --version` to check that Poetry is installed correctly.

# API Usage

To test the APIs, you can use the Swagger UI at `http://localhost:9000/docs`.

## Document Processing

Currently there is 2 systems of document processing. The `/api/v1/rag/assistants/ingest` endpoint ingests document uploads where the name of the collection that is created is the `assistant_id`, which is then used as a retrieval tool for the respective assistant.

The `/api/v1/rag/ingest` and `/api/v1/rag/query` exist as standalone endpoints for document processing. These endpoints only support embeddings generated by OpenAI and Cohere at the moment, with support for Azure OpenAI, Huggingface embeddings, and Ollama for local embedding models soon to come.

For the standalone endpoints, processing of unstructured data is handled primarily by the [embedding service](./pyserver/app/rag/embedding_service.py), which does the partioning, chunking, embedding, and upserting of documents. The splitting of documents can be done by title, where the title elements of the document are detected and then split accordingly, or the splits can be created according to semantic similarity of the surrounding content. The embeddings are then stored in the Qdrant vector database. Note that other vector database options will be added soon.

The `/api/v1/rag/ingest` endpoint supports the ingesting of documents that are uploaded with the request, or provided as a list of file objects containing URLs. This means that you could create a single collection that contains data from a combination of local files and web content.

> Note: Currently, a major limitation is that html pages have to end in .html to be processed. Mitigating this limitation is a top priority.

There are a number of configuration options available for the ingestion process, provided as a multipart form data JSON string called `payload` along with any files to be ingested if uploading.

**/rag/ingest `payload`**:

```json
{
  "index_name": "UnstructuredDocs",
  "vector_database": {
    "type": "qdrant",
    "config": {
      "host": "http://localhost:6333",
      "api_key": "123456789"
    }
  },
  "document_processor": {
    "encoder": {
      "dimensions": 1536,
      "model_name": "text-embedding-3-small",
      "provider": "openai"
    },
    "unstructured": {
      "hi_res_model_name": "detectron2_onnx",
      "partition_strategy": "auto",
      "process_tables": false
    },
    "splitter": {
      "max_tokens": 1000,
      "min_tokens": 30,
      "name": "semantic",
      "prefix_summary": true,
      "prefix_title": true,
      "rolling_window_size": 1
    }
  },
  "files": [
    {
      "url": "https://unstructured-io.github.io/unstructured/core/chunking.html",
      "name": "Chunking"
    }
    {
      "url": "https://unstructured-io.github.io/unstructured/core/partition.html",
      "name": "Partition"
    }
    {
      "url": "https://unstructured-io.github.io/unstructured/core/extracting.html",
      "name": "Extracting"
    }
  ],
  "sumarize": true,
}
```

**Notes**
- `vector_database`: This block is optional but is useful when collections are held across different vector databases. If omitted, these details will be obtained from environment variables.
- `summarize`: If true, a separate vector store will be created containing summaries of the documents. If the query involves providing a summary, the corresponding summary collection will be queried instead of the main collection.

## Querying

Document retrieval can be done directly by calling the `/api/v1/rag/query` endpoint. This is a POST request with a JSON payload containing the query parameters. Here is an example of a query payload:

```json
{
  "input": "datasets used in experiments",
  "vector_database": {
    "type": "qdrant",
    "config": {
      "host": "http://localhost:6333",
      "api_key": "123456789"
    }
  },
  "index_name": "LLMLingua",
  "encoder": {
    "provider": "cohere",
    "model_name": "embed-multilingual-light-v3.0",
    "dimensions": 384
  },
  "thread_id": "1924572b-042c-4725-b378-7e8c6664dc81",
  "interpreter_mode": false,
  "exclude_fields": [],
  "enable_rerank": true
}
```

**Notes**
- `vector_database`: This block is optional but is useful when collections are held across different vector databases. If omitted, these details will be obtained from environment variables.
- `thread_id`: This is an optional parameter and can be used to tie the query to an existing conversation id for logging purposes.
- `enable_rerank`: Whether or not to rerank the query results. Currently requires a cohere api key if true (local reranking is not yet implemented).

# Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you have a feature request, bug report, or a pull request, please feel free to open an issue or submit a PR.

# 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
